---
layout: post
title: 114 Hay
tags: board-game, game-modification
favorite: true
---
You’re a farmer, and your goal is to use your animals to secure your precious hay. This game is played on a chess board using special rules and game pieces.

##The Goal
Protect your Hay! Or eat their hay!

##The Pieces
Each player has the following set of pieces:

- 1 Farmer
- 1 Horse
- 2 Cows
- 2 Pigs
- 2 Chickens
- 8 Hay

##The Rules
- Cow rams Pig, Pig scares Chicken, Chicken tricks cow
- The cow can only run in straight lines, until she runs into something
- The pig can move in every direction, but only one space (?)
- The chicken moves two spaces forward, backward, or sideways, jumping over one space
- The farmer can move in any direction one space, but cannot move without his horse

##ADDITIONAL NOTES

- farmer can push hay around, and maybe horse can push too?
- when animals are on adjacent spaces, they affect each other (Cow beats Pig beats Chicken beats Cow)
- chain reactions are imminent (a cow rams a pig that touches a chicken and scares it into another chicken, ending the chain)
- player can make two moves per turn?
- hay that’s eaten by opponent turns to mud, aka an obstacle?
- maybe the pig can’t move at all, but has a different advantage? or maybe it can roll around in the mud?
- game ends when all opponent’s hay has been eaten, OR all of a player’s hay is completely protected, OR the opponent boxes in a farmer with animals

(Continuing work on this concept as a full project…)