---
layout: post
title: 215 Dicey
tags: brain-game, dice-game, dicey, educational-game, web-game
---
A reactionary counting game using dice.

In this game, a large amount of dice are rolled and the player has an extremely short time to study the dice, and then estimate the sum of them.

The game has multiple modes to progress through:

- **Challenge 1**: 6-sided dice, with no numbers on them...  Estimate the total number of dice rolled on the table. *(between 10 and 25 dice rolled, 5 second to count)*
- **Challenge 2**: 4-sided dice...  Estimate the sum of the numbers rolled. *(6 dice rolled, 3 seconds to count)*
- **Challenge 3**: 4-sided dice...  Estimate the sum of the numbers rolled. *(between 8 and 12 dice rolled, 4 seconds to count)*
- **Challenge 4**: 6-sided dice...  Estimate the sum of the numbers rolled. *(6 dice rolled, 3 seconds to count)*

And so on up through 10-sided dice.  Later in the game, you can unlock and play any challenge with some alternate rule sets:

- **Plus and Minus**: The challenge dice thrown are colored; green dice mean to add, red dice mean to subtract.  Time allotted to estimate is increased by 2x.
- **Evensies**: Only count the even numbers rolled.
- **Oddsies**: Only count the odd numbers rolled.
- **The Black Sheep**: One black dice is thrown with the roll; the final sum estimate of the regular dice must be multiplied by the number on the black dice.
- **Color Blind**: The dice thrown are three colors; purple, blue, and green.  Each throw, one color is chosen at random to be ignored in the total sum.

And so on!

(Also, check out these [ridiculously weird dice](http://loki3.com/poly/unique-dice.html).)

[ Today I Was Playing: ***Dragon Age II*** and ***Massive Chalice*** ]
{: .emphasis}

