---
layout: post
title: 994 Top Ten Games Of 2017
tags: game-review-critique
---
As mentioned in the previous post, I didn’t spend as many hours gaming in 2017 as in past years, so creating a top 10 list was relatively easy. In no particular order:

##Bridge Constructor Portal (iOS)
This game gets the "most unexpected" award this year. It was such a unique and addicted puzzle game.

##Pyre (PS4)
Every release from Supergiant Games is met with extreme excitement, and this one was no different. *Pyre* was so unique and interesting and memorable, and a great addition to their lineup of special games.

##Steamworld Dig 2 (PS4)
Everything that was great about the first game was just built upon and enhanced in this sequel. I loved it, and was briefly intensely addicted to it.

##Crypt of the Necrodancer (PS4)
This title gets the "most addicted to" award of this year. This was the game that I couldn’t stop thinking about when I wasn’t playing it, and played it multiple sessions per day sometimes.

##Firewatch (PS4)
"Narrative of the year" would probably go to *Firewatch*. Such a great, short, beautiful, memorable, and affective narrative game.

##The Witness (PS4)
I played most of this game in early 2016 when it was released, but had to pause when I left for international travel. Finishing it was a joy, and is a deeply unique experience that I’ll cherish for years to come.

##Salt and Sanctuary (PS4)
This is "co-op game of the year" probably. I played it couch co-op with my brother, and had a blast with its world and gameplay.

##Dishonored 2 (PS4)
I’m a massive fan of the *Dishonored* world, and was unrealistically excited for this game. It didn’t disappoint, and I could see replaying the game some day in the future with Corvo instead of Emily.

##Dishonored: Death of the Outsider (PS4)
Similarly, loved that the *Dishonored* world got a standalone full expansion to the world. A great experience and narrative add-on.

##Gears of War: Judgement (XB1)
I played this one couch co-op with my friend Eric, and we both agreed that of the Gears series so far, this one was the most fun. That’s an unpopular opinion, but something about it was just a lot of stupid fun for us.

[ Today I Was Playing: ***The Flame in the Flood*** ]
{: .emphasis}
